56795: Improve Velero Installation (#614)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/enterprise/snapshots-velero-cli-installing.md

# Installing the Velero CLI

You install the Velero CLI before installing Velero and configuring a storage destination for backups.

:::note

> If your Kubernetes installer cluster was configures to install Velero for you, then you only have to configure the storage destination in the admin console and potentially configure the Velero. For more information, see [Updating Settings in the Admin Console](snapshots-updating-with-admin-console) and [Configure Namespace Access and Memory Limit](snapshots-velero-installing-config).

Author: A rewording orphan. Thanks for catching that.

:::

## Prerequisites

> - Review the limitations and considerations. See [Limitations and Considerations](snapshots-config-workflow#limitations-and-considerations).

Reviewer: A suggestion, though up to you:

In reviewing the limitations and considerations, I didn't notice anything that really applied to this step of installing the velero CLI. Since including Prerequisites here does create a non-zero amount of friction, we could consider removing it.

This comment might also apply to other places where limitations and consideration appears as a prerequisite. Even though it's true that someone might miss them, it seems like for the most part (besides the AWS S3 bucket one which is specific to AWS) none of them really affect the steps that they take in setting up the storage destination

Reviewer 2: i agree with Paige on this one, installing the velero cli does not require those prerequisites.

Author: Good catch, thanks

## Install the Velero CLI in an Online Cluster

Online environments include installation on existing clusters and Kubernetes installer provisioned clusters.

> To install the Velero CLI in an online cluster:

Reviewer 3: I'm a bit confused by this part. @sgalsaleh Does the velero CLI need to be installed on the node? Or do you just need it on your local machine.

Also, the command below looks like it's for GCE. Can you even SSH onto a GKE node?

Author: Ah, the darned auto-correct in Atom changed GCP to GKE. It's just an example for GCP. I'm not even sure that we need to give an SSH example, it's a carry over from my internal draft for us less technical users.

1. From a terminal, run an SSH command to access and authenticate to your cluster.

    **Example: GKE Hosting**

    ```
    gcloud compute ssh -–project PROJECT_NAME -–zone CLUSTER_ZONE CLUSTER_NAME
    ```

1. Check for the latest release of the Velero CLI for **Linux AMD 64** in the Velero GitHub repo at https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/releases. Although earlier versions of Velero are supported, Replicated recommends using the latest Velero version.

    Note the version number for the next step.

1. Run the following command to download the latest Velero CLI version for the **Linux AMD 64** operating system to the cluster:

  ```
  curl -LO https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/releases/download/VERSION/velero-VERSION-linux-amd64.tar.gz
  ```

  Replace VERSION with the version number using the format `vx.x.x`

  **Example:**

  ```
  curl -LO https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/releases/download/v1.9.1/velero-v1.9.1-linux-amd64.tar.gz
  ```

> 1. Run the following command to uncompress the TAR file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to extract the binary:
```
